Docs: Updated data links content (#27110)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/linking/data-link-variables.md

+++
title = "URL variables"
keywords = ["grafana", "url variables", "documentation", "variables", "data link"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/variables/url-variables.md","/docs/grafana/latest/variables/variable-types/url-variables.md"]
type = "docs"
weight = 400
+++

# Data link variables

> You can use certain variables in data links to link to specific portions of your visualizations. For more information about data links, refer to [Data links]({{< relref "data-links.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use variables in data links to refer to series fields, labels, and values. For more information about data links, refer to [Data links]({{< relref "data-links.md" >}}).
```

To see a list of available variables, type `$` in the data link **URL** field to see a list of variables that you can use.

> **Note:** These variables changed in 6.4 so if you have an older version of Grafana, then use the version picker to select docs for an older version of Grafana.

> For more information about using variables, refer to [Templates and variables]({{< relref "../variables/templates-and-variables.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use template variables in your data links URLs,  for more information on template variables read [Templates and variables]({{< relref "../variables/templates-and-variables.md" >}})
```

## Time range panel variables

> These variables allow you to set the time range for a dashboard. For more information about time settings and options in Grafana, refer to [Time range controls]({{< relref "../dashboards/time-range-controls.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These variables allow you to include the current time range in the data link URL.
```

> * ``__url_time_range`` - current dashboard's time range (i.e. ``?from=now-6h&to=now``)

Reviewer: we sometimes only refer to variables using __varName and not the full `${varName}` syntax, wonder if we should always do `${varName} everywhere here as that is what you can copy paste into Grafana

Author: As a user, I would find that super helpful. I like just copying and pasting things from help docs into my terminal. Makes life much easier.

I suggest we do that in a different PR, and I would want some help evaluating whether there are some instances (I'm thinking data source docs, mostly) where we wouldn't want to apply that format.

* `$__from and $__to` - For more information, refer to [Global variables]({{< relref "../variables/variable-types/global-variables.md#__from-and-__to" >}}).

## Series variables

Series specific variables are available under ``__series`` namespace:

* ``__series.name`` - series name to the URL
* ``__series.labels.<LABEL>`` - label's value to the URL. If your label contains dots use ``__series.labels["<LABEL>"]`` syntax

## Field variables

Field-specific variables are available under ``__field`` namespace:

> * ``__field.name`` - field name to the URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``__field.name`` - the name of the field
```
